    Golden hills brush the blue sky, a blue so big and deep and honest you couldn’t touch it, couldn’t hold it in your head. Space, telephone poles, insignificant trucks on a dark vein of a road. It pushes out through the walls of your head. It pushes at the corners of your mind and makes you hurt with joy, how it explodes in all directions, how it fills you and then some. A gasp catches in your throat, a wondering gasp rises at the brush of the tall white grass against the black asphalt, against the sky. The purest blue and yellow and black you will ever see. 
	This means something, this lonely stretch of highway 5 in central California, the ecstasy of the untouched hills. Meaning is these hills. Meaning is the mountains, the trees, the water. The twisting branch of an oak, a quivering leaf. The long green hair of a mussel-crusted rock, floating back and forth with the tide. Trunks freckled with honeyish afternoon sun, purple crabs in beds of glistening kelp; hills laden with more colors than my tongue has names for, so I call them brown. 
	Life, pure—life is the truest meaning. Confronted by a beauty, a truth, of this magnitude, the questions fall away. This is my one true belief; what I believe with an almost religious zeal, an unquestioning faith. 
	I don’t have many others, except maybe the deep-rooted and prickly one that I don’t believe definitely in anything else. That I really have none of the answers. Every other thought or idea I’ve questioned, contradicted, pulled apart: how can this intelligence be wise, if it kills us and everything around us? What is it, and why did it happen—is the development of consciousness an inevitable step in the evolution of life, or a mutation? It’s outgrown us, our reach grown so far and so powerful, so much so that to not destroy takes the greater effort. Our intelligence seems to mean the end of the species—is this a flaw in nature?
	I don’t know! I don’t know is the beginning and end of every question, every conversation. Hopeless, despairing, exuberant, ecstatic. I don’t know and maybe I’ll never know, so little makes sense. My deepest thoughts, my philosophy, every idea I’ve had is riddled with paradoxes and contradictions, spinning in confused circles but that excites me—it makes me optimistic, not cynical, thrilled to discover and expand. There is no absolute truth, but that just means I will keep growing, exploring and stretching the limits of this consciousness. Taking advantage of this awareness, discovering what this aberration of nature can do, pushing the boundaries of my mind. The point is not to torture myself trying to understand it finitely, to reach a truth, but to take advantage of this ability to think—to question, to figure out why and to even want to know why, to have that infinite curiosity, that passion and lust for discovery. Not to despair at the confusion, but to let that elate me—there’s so much I don’t understand! This is what separates us from the fish and the trees. This is being human, the greatest part about it: the ability to explore our own minds, to appreciate beauty and question and create, to learn and to want to learn. To embrace what makes me human—what I think is the very point of being human—the only logical thing, the only honest and sensible thing to do is stretch this intelligence to its limits, past its limits. To bend it in on itself and take it apart; to pummel and stretch it, and see what it can do. 
	This is what it means to be human—this is what separates us. In our short, bright existences, this is what matters: our ability to think, to question, to find our voices, to even have individual voices at all. This is our gift, the gift of our consciousness: to create the meaning our awareness demands. To make art is to create meaning; to love is to create meaning. It’s not any less real, but its us.